So, that's a first custom action.
It's a pretty straightforward and simple custom action,
but nonetheless, very useful.
Now, sometimes you also want
to make your actions configurable.
You wanna accept inputs in your actions so that
in the Workflow definition file,
the same action can be used with slightly different inputs.
For example, we already see inputs here,
for the upload artifact action,
where we have the name and path inputs,
where we give the artifact package, a name,
and we defined, which artifact should be included.
The same here, for downloading artifacts.
I choose, which artifacts to download by name,
and then I also define the path,
where those artifact files should be downloaded to,
on this runner machine.
So these here, are inputs which we set on this action,
or the upload artifact action.
And we can also accept and use inputs
on our own custom actions,
no matter, which action type it is.
Now, to use inputs on custom actions,
you simply add the inputs key
on the same level as you added name, description, and runs.
And then nested below,
inputs you, add your inputs with any names of your choice.
For example, here, we could say that
we wanna add an input that allows users to control
whether dependencies should always be installed,
no matter, whether they were cached before or not.
So essentially, we wanna offer an input,
that allows users of this action to turn off caching,
for whichever reason,
but we wanna give them the option of doing so.
Therefore, here, I'll add a input called caching.
This name is totally up to you.
And then nested below that,
we first of all add a description.
This is now, not up to you.
This description key must be added
Here, you describe the input and what it does.
And here, I'll say,
whether to cache dependencies or not.
As a next field, you add the required field,
where you define, whether this input is needed or not.
This can be set to true.
In that case, users must provide a value in their Workflows
when using this action.
And if they don't, the action will fail.
Or you set it to false,
if it's actually, not needed.
If you do choose, required false.
You must make sure that your action code does not fail,
if it's not provided.
And you can, for example, make sure that
your action will still work,
by adding a default value,
with the default key under your input name.
This allows you to, well, specify a default value,
like, for example, true between quotes here.
We could then use the caching input in our steps here,
and assume a default value of true,
unless users specify different value,
when using this action their Workflows.
And now, we can use this input, for example,
by adding the if key to the cache dependencies step,
and then using the inputs context object,
which is one of these context objects
provided by GitHub Actions,
and available in a custom action
to reach out to these inputs
that were received by that action.
Here, I'm using the caching input,
and it's caching down here,
because it's caching up there.
So, you have to use the same key name.
And this gives us access to his caching key,
and the value that's received on that input.
And I check, whether it's equal to true between quotes.
So, if this is true,
if you wanna use caching,
then this step will be executed.
If it's set to any value, but true,
this step here,
will not be executed, thanks to this, if check.
Now here, for installing dependencies,
I already have an, iF check,
but now, I wanna modify this check.
I wanna add an, or condition.
So, an additional alternative condition,
where I check, if inputs.caching is not equal to true,
because if this is not equal to true,
if we don't wanna use caching,
then this step should execute.
That's why, I'm using, or instead of end,
I don't want both conditions here, to be met.
But instead, if either of the two conditions is not met,
I wanna run this dependency installation command.
So therefore, I'm checking for the caching input,
like this here.
And that's how you can add a custom input
to your custom action.
And of course, you can add as many other inputs
as you want, and need.
You can add just as many as needed by your action,
and we'll see more inputs in action,
in later lectures.
With that added now,
we could create a commit and push it,
because this action is not required
because we have a default.
Therefore, this action would actually, not fail.
But we can now, also add a different value,
when we're using the action.
For example, we could say,
that we wanna use caching for testing and building,
but for some reason, not when linting.
To achieve this,
we can add the, with keyword,
just as we used it for third party actions as well.
And then nested below with,
we can define the inputs expected by our action here.
So in this case, we have the caching input.
Therefore, I add the caching key here,
and for example, set this to false.
And this should disable caching for this action,
in this Job here,
or in this step here, to be precise.
Not in any other steps or Jobs.
And with that, if I now create a new commit,
added caching input,
we should see that as we push this,
of course, the Workflow runs again.
But now, for the linting script,
we should actually see that
it does not cache the dependencies,
but instead,
it will reinstall all dependencies every time this Job runs.
And for the average Jobs,
testing and building,
it should use caching.
So here, for linting,
you indeed see that,
for our custom action step,
it did use this command to install the dependencies.
So, it did not use caching here.
For testing, on the other hand,
if we take a look at this step,
we see that instead, it did get that data from the cache,
and we see that it did restore the cache successfully,
and that it did not run the command
to install the dependencies.
So, this custom input is working as intended.